= Correlate

Correlate is an experiment in loosely expressing relationsips between documents
stored in CouchDB using couchrest.

Correlate stores all the relationships in an array of links, similar to the link
elements found in HTML:

  {
    ...
    "links" : [
     { "rel" : "another_doc", "href" : "<uuid>" },
     { "rel" : "important", "href" : "<uuid>" }
     ...
    ]
    ...
  }

Inspired by looking for ways to express the loosened relationships that exists
between documents inside CouchDB, but to not mimic the nature of an RDBMS.

== Usage

  require 'correlate'

  class MyDocument < CouchRest::ExtendedDocument

    include Correlate

    related_to do
      some :other_documents, :class => 'OtherDocument', :rel => 'other_doc'
    end
  end

This sets up a +links+ property on the document, with some accessors for loading
and ammending relationships:

  my_doc = MyDocument.new

  my_doc.other_documents << other_document_instance

  my_doc.other_documents #=> [ other_document_instance ]

== Associations with ActiveRecord models

When transitioning from ActiveRecord to CouchDB it is inevitable that relationships
will exist across the boundaries of each database. Correlate helps you to express
these relationships:

== CouchDB to ActiveRecord

Pretty much the same as the examples above:

  class MyDocument < CouchRest::ExtendedDocument

    include Correlate

    related_to do
      a :model, :class => 'Model', :rel => 'model'
    end
  end

== ActiveRecord to CouchDB

When using an 'a' relationship, you don't need to specify any additional 
information, but when specifying a 'some' relationship you'll want to supply
the name of the view.

  class SomeModel < ActiveRecord::Base

    include Correlate

    related_to do
      some :documents, :class => 'Document', :view => 'some_model_id', :key => :id
      some :notes, :class => 'Note', :rel => 'some_model'
    end
  end

  class Document < CouchRest::ExtendedDocument

    property :some_model_id

    view_by :some_model_id
  end

  class Note < CouchRest::ExtendedDocument

    include Correlate

    related_to do
      a :some_model, :class => 'SomeModel', :rel => 'some_model'
    end
  end

== Status

This project is highly experimental, but is in use in a few applications in one
form or another.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Kenneth Kalmer. See LICENSE for details.
